[Autogenerated] before discussing about war fitting and under fitting.
Let's understand what is bias and variance.
Let's revisit the housing data that we saw in the previous clip,
a data 0.1, which is for the house.
With the size 1000 square feet you can see the actual value is
100 on the predicted value is 110 So the difference between
actual and predicted is 10 units.
This difference is called is bias.
A low bias means that the moral is spiriting accurately.
The high bias means low accuracy.
Now let's imagine that we repeat the model building
process with a different dataset.
Variance is a measure off how much the predictions vary for
a fixed point between different ones.
For example,
it's take a different sample of data that has house with 1000 square
feet and check the differences between predicted.
On actual,
though there are other factors that contribute to pricing
off the house for simplicity's sake, we're going to disregard those.
The chart that you see is for a different sample,
and in this sample you can see the difference between the
estimated on the actual price is nine units.
That means the model didn't change a whole lot between samples.
This model would be considered as low variance.
If your moral changes drastically between sample sets,
it's considered a high variance model.
You must have seen this bull side diagram from many mission learning articles
showing the bias on variant straight off in the abode diagram.
The center off the bull side is a model that has perfect prediction school,
which means the low bias as we move away from the center.
The bias increases now as we repeat the modeling process.
If the scores are scattered all over the place,
then it is a model with high variance else.
It is a model with the low variance.
Your ideal scenario is to have a low bias on low variance,
a model with low bias and high variance.
It's called war footing.
Error model, with the high bias on low variance,
is often called us under fitting on.
Most of the time it happens mainly because we have very less
data to build accurate Morning are the data is nonlinear and
error trying to build a linear model.
So common suggestions to overcome under fitting are two use more features
into the model are two improve the predicting capability.
Try adding complexity to your model over.
Fitting usually happens when the model tries too
hard to fit into the training set, and it's very bad in generalizing.
So common suggestions to overcome over fitting are two use fever features to
decrease the variance and to increase training samples.
Regularization is a technique that is often used to a wide war.
Fitting in over fitting, the model captures all the noises.
The model will show high accuracy for the training set,
but will perform poorly on a test dataset,
which means it shows high variance for any good.
Performing gentle is model.
The model ideally needs to be low bias on low variance,
so the process of converting this high variance to low
variance is often called regularization.
To explain this better,
let's assume a simple linear regression with just two
data points as shown in the chart.
With this minimum data, the model will be over fitting.
As you can see,
the some off Squires between the actual unpredicted values are zero,
but the same model might perform very poorly on a test data on the value
off the cost function of the error function is higher.
To minimize this, we modify the error function as shown below.
This is called a ridge.
Regression are held to regularization.
Lambda is a positive value.
On em is a slope off the line.
Now the L to value may be higher on a war fit model which
dictates us to optimize the model even further.
Though the actual and predicted value in this new line are not exactly the same,
the overall error has come down in lasso regression.
Also called us l one regularization.
Instead of squiring the slope,
we calculate the absolute value off the some of the slope.
Lasso regression is also used in feature extraction. By removing all the features who slope value is, zero are closer to zero.